```table-of-contents
```

## General info
**Semestrial Hours:** 6
**Academic Credits:** 5
## Overview
### Objectives and abstract
- To implement the principles of logic system hardware.
- To understand the basic structure of a digital computer and to study in detail the basic CPU unit organization in different ways of implementation till modern computer technology.
- To learn the basic of assembly language programing focused on the hardware software interface.

This course will give you an in-depth understanding of the inner-workings of modern digital computer systems in all the levels of abstraction and tradeoffs present at the hardware-software interface.
The MIPS architecture is used as guiding example throughout the course.
### Topics included
- Performance of a processor system.
- Computer arithmetic (Binary integer and floating point number systems)
- Boolean Algebra and logic gates.
- Assembly language including instruction formats, addressing modes, instruction types. flow of control, the assembly process, linking, loading, Pseudo instructions, and Rules for Procedures.
- Combinational logic and synchronous sequential logic, building the basic CPU units.
- The processor Single cycle, Multi Cycle and pipeline implementation.
- Pipeline hazards.
- Interrupts and exceptions.
- Memory hierarchies.
### Learning Outcomes
- The student could explain how modern computer works in all the levels of abstraction.
- The student could interpretant assembly instruction into machine instruction and transform it into a logic circuit.
- Vice versa he student could implement logic circuit and transform it into a machine instruction and interpretant assembly instruction.
- The graduate student could understand how to enhance performance via multicycle and parallelism (pipeline) and solve problems (Hazards) that parallel configuration make.
- The graduate student can write and read a basic assembly code with regard to the hardware-software interface, including load store mechanism and procedure rules.
### Skills
- **Problem solving:** defining problems and identifying strategies. The ability to identify one or more
approaches to problem solving without application in a specific context.
- **Programming:** writing a working, high-quality program, adding to an existing program, reading, and
understanding a program. The ability to identify types of variables, output and input, using
conditionals, loops, functions, and the ability to read a simple program.
- **Integrative learning:** linking to practical experience. The ability to identify connections between
experience and similarly perceived ideas.
## Syllabus
### Lecture topics by weeks
1. An introduction to the course. The basic concepts of a von Neuman architecture system. 
- The importance of Instruction sets Architecture (ISA) RISC vs. CISC.
- Digital systems and binary numbers.
2. Performance: Assessing and understanding Performance. 
- Boolean Algebra and logic gates.
3. MIPS Assembly language: (R format I Format J Format), Arithmetic Logic operations, Data transfer, Conditional Branch, Unconditional JUMP. Addressing modes.
4. Combinational logic: building ALU and other arithmetic units synchronous sequential logic: building the register file.
5.  Single Cycle CPU Datapath and Control implementation.
6. Advanced Single Cycle CPU critical path.
- Multicycle implementation (Finite state machine).
7. Multicycle implementation. Compiler, linker, loader. Rules for Procedures. (Stack and variables)
8. Introduction to pipeline
- Pipeline: Data Hazard
9. Midterm exam
- Continue Advanced Data Hazard.
10. Pipeline hazards: Control hazards. Branch prediction, pipeline scheduling.
- Exceptions: The Interrupt Mechanism.
11. Floating point numbers (IEEE754).
- Introduction to Memory Hierarchies.
12. Memory Hierarchies
13. Measuring and improving Cache performance Virtual Memory & Review.

### Lab topics by weeks
1. Numbers representation (signed, unsigned ,operation, overflow, radix).
2. Exercise: Performance and Boolean Algebra and logic gates.
3. Introduction to MARS and The MIPS ISA format.
4. Lab1: Arithmetic and Logic and shift Instructions; implement simple for loop.
5. Lab2-3: I/O- Exception Handler - syscall.
6. Lab4: Nested loops.
7. Lab 5 :Arrays string and pointers (memory load and store mechanism).
8. Finish Lab5 and simulation for midterm exam.
9. Lab6: Stack, procedures (The conventions of variables).
10. Final program assignment on nested procedure.
11. Lab7: Floating point arithmetic on MIPS.
12. Exercise: Cache
13. Review and advanced exercise on cache.
## Grade
**Final Exam Grade** - 80%
**Midterm Exam Grade** - 10%
**Homework assignments** - 10%
### Midterm Exam
**Duration:** 70 minutes
**Location:** Frontal (computer lab)
**Allowed sheets:** Any written or printed material!

### Final Exam
**Duration:** 210 minutes
**Location:** Regular class (no computers)
**Allowed sheets:** Any written or printed material!