```table-of-contents
```
## General info
**Semestrial Hours:** 6
**Academic Credits:** 5
## Overview
### Objectives and abstract
The course presents the basic concepts and methods of multivariable calculus as well its applications in science and
engineering.
### Topics included
- Infinite series. Convergence tests. Series of functions; convergence and uniform convergence. Power series; representation of functions by power series. Taylor series.
- Functions of several variables - limits and continuity, partial and directional derivatives, Linear approximation, Gradient. The chain rule. Higher order partial derivatives and second degree Taylor polynomial. Relative/absolute maximum and minimum values. Lagrange multipliers. Multiple integrals.
- Fubini's theorem. Change of variables. Polar, cylindrical and spherical coordinates. Line integrals of scalar functions. Line integrals of vector fields. Independence of path and Green theorem. Surface integrals of scalar functions. Oriented surfaces and surface integrals of vector fields. The divergence theorem (Gauss-Ostrogradsky). Stokes' theorem. Applications.

### Learning Outcomes
This course is designed to give students the mathematical background and the tools they need in engineering studies, in the field of differential and integral calculus in several variables and thus completes the fundamental topics of infinitesimal calculus.
### Skills
- **Integrative learning:** linking to practical experience. The ability to identify connections between experience and similarly perceived ideas.
- **Problem solving:** defining problems and identifying strategies. The ability to identify one or more approaches to problem solving without application in a specific context.
- **Critical thinking:** explaining the issues, foundation, contexts, and taking a position. Presenting the subject based on information sources without interpretation, evaluation or taking a position.
## Syllabus
### Lecture topics by weeks
1. Infinite series and tests of convergence (1):
   Infinite series. Convergence tests. The comparison, ratio and root tests. The integral test.
2. Infinite series and tests of convergence (2):
   Alternating series; Leibniz's test; absolute and conditional convergence. Series of functions.
- Power series (1):
  Series of functions; convergence and uniform convergence; Weierstrass test for uniform
  convergence (if time allows). Power series; representation of function by power series.
3. Series of functions.
   Power series (2):
   Taylor and Mac-Laurin series. Cauchy-Hadamrd theorem. Differentiation and integration of
   power series. Applications.
- Functions of several variables (1):
  examples; domain, range and level curves. Limits and continuity.
4. Functions of several variables (2):
   Partial derivatives. Differentials and linear approximation. Gradients and directional derivatives.
   The chain rule; application to differential equations. Higher order partial derivatives.
5. Taylor polynomial. Relative/absolute minimum and maximum points (1):
   Second degree Taylor polynomial and quadratic approximation of functions of two or more variables. Relative/absolute maximum and minimum values; critical points and Fermat's theorem.
6. Relative/absolute minimum and maximum points (2):
   Second derivatives test; saddle points. Weierstrass theorem. Lagrange multipliers. Applications.
7. Multiple integrals (1):
   Multiple integrals; iterated integrals; Fubini's Theorem. Polar, cylindrical and spherical coordinates.
   The Jacobian and Change of variables. Applications of double and triple integrals.
8. Multiple integrals (2):
   Multiple integrals; iterated integrals; Fubini's Theorem. Polar, cylindrical and spherical coordinates.
   The Jacobian and Change of variables. Applications of double and triple integrals.
9. Multiple integrals (3):
   Multiple integrals; iterated integrals; Fubini's Theorem. Polar, cylindrical and spherical coordinates. 
   The Jacobian and Change of variables. Applications of double and triple integrals.
10. Line integrals and Surface integrals (1):
    Line integrals of scalar functions. Line integrals of vector fields; work.
	The fundamental theorem for line integrals and independence of path.
11. Line integrals and Surface integrals (2):
    Green's theorem. Surfaces. Tangent planes, normal lines and gradient vectors.
	Surface integrals of scalar functions. Oriented surfaces and surface integrals of vector fields. Flux.
12. Gauss Theorem and Stokes Theorem (1):
    Divergence and curl. The divergence theorem (Gauss-Ostrogradsky). Applications.
13. Gauss Theorem and Stokes Theorem (2):
    Stokes' theorem. Applications.

### Lab topics by weeks
1. Infinite series. Convergence tests.
2. Power series (1)
3. Power series (2)
- Functions of several variables; examples; domain, range and level curves.
4. Limits and continuity. Partial derivatives. Higher order partial derivatives.
5. Gradients and directional derivatives. Differentials and linear approximation. The chain rule.
6. The chain rule; application to differential equations.
   Relative/absolute maximum and minimum values; critical points and Fermat's theorem. Weierstrass theorem. Applications.
7. Second derivatives test; Hessian and saddle points. Lagrange multipliers. Applications.
8. Multiple integrals and applications. Fubini’s theorem. Jacobian (1)
9. Multiple integrals and applications. Fubini’s theorem. Jacobian (2)
10. Multiple integrals and applications. Fubini’s theorem. Jacobian (3)
11. Line integrals of scalar functions. Line integrals of vector fields; work. The fundamental theorem for line integrals and independence of path. Green's theorem.
12. Surfaces. Tangent planes, normal lines and gradient vectors. Surface integrals of scalar functions.
13. Surface integrals of vector fields.
    The divergence theorem (Gauss-Ostrogradsky) and Stokes' theorem. Applications.
## Grade
**Final Exam Grade** - 85%
**Midterm Exam Grade** - 10%
**Homework assignments** - 5%
### Midterm Exam
**Location:** Moodle (remotely)
### Final Exam
**Duration:** 180 minutes
**Location:** Regular class (no computers)
**Allowed sheets:** Formula sheets