```table-of-contents
```
## General info
**Semestrial Hours:** 6
**Academic Credits:** 4.5
## Overview
### Objectives and abstract
The students will learn how to design and implement an Object-Oriented system using Java.

The students will learn about classes and objects, constructors, inheritance, polymorphism, and interfaces,
and will learn how to combine them all into an object-oriented system.
The students will learn how to show the system also using class diagrams.
### Skills
- **Problem solving:** defining problems and identifying strategies. The ability to identify one single
approach to problem solving that can be applied in a specific context.
- **Critical thinking:** explaining the issues, foundation, contexts, and taking a position. Presenting the
subject based on information sources with a certain level of interpretation, evaluation and taking a
position.
- **Integrative learning:** linking to practical experience. The ability to compare practical experience and
academic knowledge, in order to find differences and similarities.
## Syllabus
### Lecture topics by weeks
1. From Python to Java: syntax and concepts. Some of them will be self-learned.
2. Classes and objects: attributes, methods and visibility.
3. Constructors and 'this reference.
4. System with association: composition and aggregation.
5. static: attributes and methods, enum.
6.  Inheritance and class diagram.
7.  Polymorphism and class Object.
8.  Exceptions.
9. Interfaces written by the programmer.
10. Known interfaces: Comparable, Comparator and Clone-able. Files: text and binary.
11.  Generics
12.  Collections.
13.  Analysis of an object-orients system using SOLID.
### Subjects for self-tutoring
Methods of class String and StringBuffer/Builder.
## Grade
**Final Exam Grade** - 80%
**Project** - 20%
### Final Exam
**Duration:** 150 minutes
**Location:** Regular class (no computers)
**Allowed sheets:** 2 double-sided pages (self-written)